NOTES:

1. What is that + sign for?
The most important part of this program is the work sets. These are the 531
lifts, usually the A and C elements of each days workout. 

The plus means do as many reps as possible, with the preceding number
indicating a minimum number of reps.

For example,when you see:
'Squat 5, 5, 5+ @ 200, 225, 250'

this means to perform three sets of squats.
The first set is 5 reps at 200. 
The second set is 5 reps at 225. 
The third set, do as many reps as possible at 250, getting at least 5 reps.

Record the number of reps you got on your training plan. It's an important
metric for determining how you are doing. Also, it's fun to try to hit new
3, 5, and 10 rep maxes as often as possible.

If you completely fail to get the required reps, let the coach know. Some
adjustments may be necessary. In general, however, you should be able to get
the required reps, and probably several more. It will be hard. All good things
are.

That being said, we generally consider it to be counterproductive to overdo
it. So we usually absolutely cap the reps at 10, and probably more like 10
on the 5+ day, 6 or 8 on the 3+ day, and 5 on the 1+ day. It just depends on
how badly you want it.

2. Optional 'Joker' sets
On any lift, after performing the 531 lift, but before dropping back down for
the volume (usually the B and D parts of the workout), if you are feeling
spicy, or you want to refamiliarize/practice with heavy weights, you will
perform Joker sets.

Add 5-10% of your training max and do another set of 5, 3, or 1, depending on
which training week it is. If you get all the reps, continue adding 5-10% until
you cannot get the reps.

Then add 5-10% and do singles until you can't. Try not to fail any lifts. Use
good judgement. Then proceed to the down sets.

3. Efficiency and Falling Behind
This is a lot to get done in 60 minutes. Here are some tips to help you make
it:

Barbell Club starts lifting at 6 at the latest! Please do your mobilizing and
warmup PRIOR to class!

Each training day focuses on two major lifts: Back Squat and Press on day 1,
and Deadlift and Bench Press on day 2. Try to finish your first cluster of 
lifts by half past, and your second cluster of lifts by 7.

Everybody loves conditioning wods, but we may not always have time for them. 
So they are optional. Barbell club is FREE for the duration of the PR
challenge to registered participants, so just come to regular classes to get
your WOD on. You may find that max reps at 95% of your training max is indeed
a heavy-breathing inducing experience.

If you can't come twice a week to barbell club, or run out of time and don't
make it through the entire workout, fear not! As mentioned before, the 531
lifts are the most important part of this program. The other lifts add volume
and help catalyze your development, but they aren't strictly necessary.

So if you fall behind, feel free to roll in 20-30 minutes prior to a class or
during open gym to get a 531 lift in. For example, if you missed a Thursday,
you could show up early for a Friday class and do:
Deadlift 3, 3, 3+ @ 360, 385, 410

Also, since we're not testing bench press as part of this challenge, make it
the first thing to toss out if you fall behind (that's why it's the last lift
of the week!)

4. Helping the coaches
Keep your plan with you, and mark off, preferably in red pen, each lift as
you do them, including the number of reps on your max reps sets.

5. How many sets and reps should I do for...
Ranges are usually given. Use how you are feeling to determine whether to go
for more or less sets. More isn't always better. Just most of the time.

6. But wait, this plan is 9 weeks long...
And the challenge is 8 weeks. That's okay. Take it easy perhaps for the
few days before the final testing day. Skip the deadlifts for sure.
